plans.md, before:


# Feature Plans

These changes are planned to be implemented in DS-Craft.

## Table of contents

- [Feature Plans](#feature-plans)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [New Features](#new-features)
  - [Changes](#changes)
  - [Q of L (quality of life) Features](#q-of-l-quality-of-life-features)
  - [Code Improvements](#code-improvements)

## New Features

- Dirt slabs: craftable using 6 dirt (planned for beta1.7)
- Petrified wooden slabs
- Stained glass (planned for beta1.7)
- Changing sound volume per sound source
- More flowers (planned for beta1.7)
- Dyes (to make glass stained) (planned for beta1.7)
- Achievements!!! :p

## Changes

- Store world's last played and creation date in `world.meta`
- Show last played date in world select screen
- Redesign settings menu with stuff like categories such as
  - General
  - Visual
  - Audio
  - Misc aka Settings that idk where to put them

## Q of L (quality of life) Features

- Allow for UI customization (even if its super basic) (planned for beta1.7)

## Code Improvements

- Documentation for scripts (doc strings)

Commit message:

Add planned release section to plans

plans.md, after:


# Feature Plans

These changes are planned to be implemented in DS-Craft.

## Table of contents

- [Feature Plans](#feature-plans)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Next Update Date](#next-update-data)
  - [New Features](#new-features)
  - [Changes](#changes)
  - [Q of L (quality of life) Features](#q-of-l-quality-of-life-features)
  - [Code Improvements](#code-improvements)

## Next Update Date

The next update (*beta1.7*) is planned to release in **January 2024**.

## New Features

- Dirt slabs: craftable using 6 dirt (planned for beta1.7)
- Petrified wooden slabs
- Stained glass (planned for beta1.7)
- Changing sound volume per sound source
- More flowers (planned for beta1.7)
- Dyes (to make glass stained) (planned for beta1.7)
- Achievements!!! :p

## Changes

- Store world's last played and creation date in `world.meta`
- Show last played date in world select screen
- Redesign settings menu with stuff like categories such as
  - General
  - Visual
  - Audio
  - Misc aka Settings that idk where to put them

## Q of L (quality of life) Features

- Allow for UI customization (even if its super basic) (planned for beta1.7)

## Code Improvements

- Documentation for scripts (doc strings)
